Sootputra: The Unsung Hero
Chapter 38
Jarasandh was at least a feet higher than me. He was older, more expirienced and though he had white hairs and wrinkles, his bulky build hid most of that. Scars on his face and hands sang the songs of his brutality and victories. A man with these many scars won’t survive to tell his tales if he hasn’t won all the fights that gave him those reminders. He was no stranger to killing. Mercy? He may not even know the meaning of it. He was like a bear, his furry arms and chest made the likeness more similar. And He was waiting for me to enter the ring. THe armies were ready too. This would be Ashwathama’s first war. Battles he had won many, but a war was different. It was tatctical, it required strategies not just prowess. But I was counting on him. Whatever little knowledge he has earned, whatever little he had read and learned in his father’s tutelage I was willing to stake all of Anga on it. It was the only way. Just hold on for a few minutes. I wanted to say those words to him personally but only my thoughts will have to do for now. I wished Ahwath Good luck, I’m sure he was doing the same too. There was no time. And soon there will be no war.
Jarasandh cracked his knuckles stepping forward. “I won’t give you the chance to say you held back.”
“I won’t need any,” 
“Good. Now lets break your spine.” Jarasandh jumped. The fast and the most unpredicatble move he ever did in the fight. His body made him slow but he knew of that weakness and countered it with his crazy jumps that were like a human sized grasshopper coming at yuo to break your jaw. But just having good jumps weren’t the means to win the fight. His punches were still slow. Having a heavy build has that cost. Yet if even a few managed to land. I would be in a bad shape. I jumped back as the Magadh king stomped the ground. He feet went in the grassy patch. What was he? An Elephant? I won’t survivie many hits. But constantly dodging wasn’t an option either. The more this battle draggs on the more the war will. Ashwathama won’t holdout for long, neither will my soldiers. Yuyutsu tapped his foot standing on the chariot. He was looking at both the fights. The one happing below and the one happening right in front of him. In one his king was about to die and in the other his army.
“Keep you’re eyes on me boy. ” Jarasandhs one punch was enough top send me rolling out striking the table which held his drinks. The wine spilled on me, undiscernable from the blood dripping out of my mouth.  It was even harder than the punch Acharya thew at me. If only he was a little faster, he would even beat him. I stood coughing and spitting the blood. It tasted salty. I could feel the swollen lips bleeding. Jarasandh smiled.
“I expected better from the pupil of Shiva’s disciple. Didn’t he teach you to stand up as soon as you fall.”
He did. He absolutely did. But I didn’t wanted too. There was so much pain and blood waiting on the other side. I could let it end here peacefully. No more struggles. It’ll be and honorable death. A warriors death. 
I rolled the lips inward sucking the blood as I slowly stood up. There was still so much to fight for. The soldiers down there were fighting for their home. My friend and my brother were laying down there lives for me. I got no right to do anything less. 
I jumped. Jarasandh was stepping forward when he stopped, suddenly his arms were up. He was good. He already knew I will go for his head. But there were other areas which were left unportected by this move. Like his abdomen. 
“AAh!” I heard the bones shatter and scream scare away the crows above. 
“Predictable!” jarasandh said. His hand squeezed my wrists and crushed the tendons like they were twigs. “You really think a boy like you can beat me.” And then I heard the crack of bone like breaking marble as the grip grew stronger. He did a feint. The arms were a ruse to lure me a in and I fell like a hare in a hunters trap. I Punched Jrasandh in the face. He bled through the nose and left my hand. I couldn’t move the damns thing. It was like a lifeless limb just jolts of pain likt lighting throbbed around swelling the tissues. 
“Accept the defeat and I might, I might leave your country untouched but you will die either way?” he said spitting in the dirt. “What’s there to be smiling about?”
I don’t know why I did it though. Her I was on the verge of defeat, a stronger person in front of me has broken my arm and Ashwath was barely hanging on down there. But I still felt like smiling.  The pain was slowly leaving. The frustrated face of Jarasandh where he narrowed his gaze just to intice fear in me wasn’t working. 
“Magadh King. I feel your pain. I’ve been there too. That hatred, that dark malice you’re carrying isn’t becasue of me. It’s becasue of that girl bhanumati isn’t it. It because of that Swayamvar.”
“What aree you talking about Soot?”
“The defeat didn’t hurt you. But the unability to win a bride in two successive swayamver is corroding you isn’t it?” I said as I the hulking giant straightened hi back for round two.
“You know you desrved her. More than Duryodhan. But she was stolen. She wasn’t going to pick you wasn’t she?” He stood silent before speaking his emotions thorugh words.
“The princess was suppossed to be mine. You don’t even know half a thing about her. How could you? You squashed the her budding emotions before they bloomed fully.” He said.
“You crushed the love that was and that could have been.”
He came like a bear hungry for flesh. But I was ready this time. Dodging and rolling out I went back Jarsandh and kicked his leg which were still in motion. He went down. He wasn’t deafeated but he was on the ground.
“I’m sorry king.” I sighed. Grabbing my breath. “I didn’t know she loved you. I wouldn’t have let it happen let alone carry the henious deed myself. But for that You can’t kill innocnt people.”
“Why can’t I? Don’t mistake a moment of weakness for mercy Soot King. I’m still Jarasandh. The one who who forced even Krishna to flee countless times. If you really want to --”


The ground suddenly shook, Earthquake!? We both lost our footings, and the rest of the area including the tent and people went down. Fortunately it didn’t lasted for long. But it was enough for me, Jarasandh was a little slow to recover. 
I was quick enough to use it to my advantage, I grabbed his hand and turned him the other way twisting it all the way. But, his strength was so much for my one hand to hold, He slowly recovered and I had to let it go or I would have been in a bad position. 
My body still had some energy to go on, but Jarasandh had the strength and that’s what more valued in this match. Though he was a little slow now. My only hope was that the earthquake from a moment ago must have given my army a little time to recover. And Ashwatham must have used it to it’s full advantage to slow Magadh down. Cause this match was going to last some more.
Jarasandh came lunging at me with his body with lowered waist, so that I can’t grab him. But I read it just in time and used his to jump over him. He wasn’t going to let me go that easily. 
With a quick turn , he spun his leg for my head. This time my timing failed to dodge his bare leg. It landed on my right cheek, as tasted it’s force to my face. I didn’t counted how many times I spun before falling. Blood was spilling down from my lips as if a slow stream of water during the rain. 
Everything around, became blurred and dizzy. Couldn’t see where he was. The only sound came was of pain. 
“Ahh….my leg. ” My head got cleared a little as Magadh King became three from four, then two and then finally one. 
He was sitting on the ground grabbing his leg. It had a big lump on it. 
“What did you do?” He yelled. 
But I couldn’t say anything as my mouth was swelling up with blood which came pouring out.  Guess, he isn’t used to hitting hard things. Still, his leg sweep was strong, even stronger than Acharya’s. 
Good thing he was grabbing his leg, as I was is no mood to stand anytime soon, or should I say I couldn’t. It felt like several worms were slithering in my head. I would fall down if I stood up, so I slowly pushed myself to a sitting position.  


 There was no time to think. The more time I worry about my injury the more others die. I jumped feet first on his ankles. Both the shoes hit the same spot. Jarasandh was too much ofa tower to withstand that he fell using his hands to stopp his fall. But a punch to the face made sure he touched the ground.  
“Who …who the fuck ….goes for a kick instead of a sweep?”
“An old man’s trick I picked up long ago.” He rolled back. Magadh king was not going down easily.

“Jarasandh Stop! Or I’ll make you.”
Jarasandh looked at me spitting on the ground. He groaned as he stood up. His stance was not proper. His right leg was in front landing on his toe and its heel in air. “There’s only one way this ends Sootputra.” He rushed “With your death.”
“So be it. ” I rolled to the sides. Jarsandh went through passing the empty air and I grabbed him from his back flying him in the air and smacking his head right in the Ground. Jarsandh was dead. Magadh king was gone. At least he should have been. But he rose back. 
He was groaning, he was barely moving but he was alive and my men still kept getting butchered. 
Jarasandh had to die if mY men were to survive. He was to be split. He cam at me again. But he was too slow now. His punch flew by above me. And he screamed the next next when my pointy shoe struck the swollen area again. Jrasadh fell. I grabbed his one leg and stepped on the other and started stretching. 
“NO, Stop!” But I did not. “Stop! Stop.” 
“Angraaj-” The only voice that made my moves halt were the voice f Yuyutsu. And then I looked at the man below. He was an old man. weak, bleeding.  A king Begging for his life. A man who had endured humiliation and now wanted redemption. For split moment I saw myself looking back at me and it haunted me. But then their was Jarasandh again.  Men are willing to go to any length to avege their humiliation. Even if it meant comiting an eve greaer sin. It was a fragile thing for men- their pride. That was the lesson I learned that day. I should’ve kept it with me all my life. Maybe it wouldn’t have resulted the way it did then.
“YOu take away your armies back, right now?” The magdh king nodded and soon a shanq resounded around us.  
“You never come back to Anga, ever. Becasue then it won’t be a king facing you. It will be a soot out for revenge.” I let go when jarsandh saud yes.




